
## How to Run EASTER

EASTER is a sentiment analysis tool developed by Lin et al., as described in the paper [EASTER: Sentiment Analysis Tool](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3545258.3545273).

EASTER's code can be pulled from https://github.com/xiaobo-lab/EASTER/tree/main

### EASTER Setup

To set up EASTER, I used Python 3.8 and created a virtual environment using the following command in the terminal:
    C:\my_path\Programs\Python\Python38\python.exe -m venv my_easter_env


Before each usage, I activate the environment with:
    my_easter_env/Scripts/activate


### Installing Requirements
EASTER has several dependencies, which are listed in EASTER's readme. They are:
sklearn 
transformers==4.15.0
protobuf==3.20.*
tensorflow

Before the first run, install these requirements.


### Running EASTER
EASTER is pretrained, so it can be used as is, without additional model training. 
To run EASTER, adjust the filepaths in EASTER.py as needed and run
    py EASTER.py

#### Interesting available functions
- predict(): This function overwrites the sentiment column in the specified CSV file with predictions generated by EASTER.
- test(): This function reads the sentiment column and compares it with EASTER’s predictions. The predictions are not saved, only a statistic is output to assess accuracy is displayed

I used predict() since I have my own custom statistics method.

## How to Run Senti4SD
Senti4SD is a sentiment analysis tool developed by Calefato et al., as described in the paper [Sentiment Polarity Detection for Software Development](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10664-017-9546-9).

The code can be found in https://github.com/collab-uniba/Senti4SD/tree/master

### Senti4SD Setup

Senti4SD's readme describes how to setup and run the tool. Howver, here are some notes on the setup:

Note: I used WSL for this as it involves Linux commands

1. **Install Dependencies:**
   sudo apt install r-base-core
   sudo Rscript requirements.R
   sudo apt install openjdk-8-jre-headless

2. Convert files to unix
   sudo apt install dos2unix
   dos2unix requirements.sh
   dos2unix Sample.csv
   find . -type f -exec dos2unix {} \;


3. If you run into problems because of too small heapspace, increase the heapspace in the classification.sh 
    I changed this line in the classification.sh: 
     java -jar $SCRIPTDIR/Senti4SD-fast.jar -F A -i $1 -W $SCRIPTDIR/dsm.bin -oc $SCRIPTDIR/extractedFeatures.csv -vd 600
    To that line:
     java -Xmx4g -jar Senti4SD-fast.jar -F A -i $1 -W dsm.bin -oc extractedFeatures.csv -vd 600
       

### How to process Senti4SD output
Senti4SD outputs data in an unsorted manner, where each row is tagged with a `t` value, indicating the correct order (e.g., `Row,Predicted`):

t3,negative
t1,neutral
t2,negative

To address this, I created a script (src\Analyze_Sentiment_Results\post_process_classified_output.py) that sorts and post-processes the output based on the `t` values for a structured result.
Run it with: py post_process_classified_output.py. Make sure to fill in the paths to your csv files in the script.

This script takes the raw Senti4SD output as input, sorts it by t values, and outputs a new CSV file with numerical sentiment scores.